---
layout: post
title: Week One 
---

## What did I do this past week?
This past week I was primarily getting the feel for my classes and mentally preparing myself for the start of a new semester. I'm very excited as in addition to this course, I'll be taking Artificual Intelligence, Advanced Multivariate Models, and the Longhorn Startup Lab, so I should have plenty of interesting things to keep me busy! Fortunately, I spent most of this past break studying (Hadoop MapReduce and Spark), so it should't be too hard to hit the ground running and keep on working hard.

## What's in your way?
As of this moment, nothing at all! I am sure that will change very soon as the semester picks up and the inevitable load of coursework, and startup difficulties start arriving. I would also like very much to get an internship for this Summer, so I will be aggressively pursuing opportunities on that end and practicing interview questions.

## What will you do next week?
Next week I will begin working on Collatz among my other assignments. I will try to continue studying Hadoop and Spark if I have any free time, but it seems quite doubtful at this point. 

## The Course
This course seems to be quite interesting. I will admit I am more excited for the assignments than the lectures, as in my opinion the best way to learn tools and become better at software engineering is to get your hands dirty and code. Python is my favorite language so I am looking forward to using it in the course, and to see if I might be able to gain a deeper understanding of it as we progress. I am really looking forward to starting the main project of the course, and would like to try my hand at Angular JS to get some experience with both frontend development (I have done some backend work before), and to learn Javascript (I love picking up new languages).

## Tip of the Week
Since I'm very interested in data science, I thought I would introduce some of the Python libraries I like working with each week in this section. 

This week I'd like to introduce [NumPy](http://www.numpy.org/). Think MATLAB but in python. It is a very powerful scientific computing library which provides an incredibly useful N-Dimensional array object and linear algebra subroutines. It is very handy for implementing machine learning models, with efficient, vectorized operations. Surprisingly, NumPy rivals even C++ in terms of speed, but with the much nicer syntax and faster development time of Python. 
